1.D
2.C
3.C
4.C
5.B
6.B
7.B
8.D
9.B
10. Ans - The adjusted R2 will penalize us for adding independent variables (K in the equation) that do not fit the model. 
Reason Being ,In regression analysis, it can be tempting to add more variables to the data as we think of them. 
Some of those variables will be significant, but we can’t be sure that significance is just by chance. 
The adjusted R2 will compensate for this by that penalizing us for those extra variables.
While values are usually positive, they can be negative as well. 
This could happen if your R2 is zero; After the adjustment, the value can dip below zero. 
This usually indicates that your model is a poor fit for our data. 
Other problems with our model can also cause sub-zero values, such as not putting a constant term in our model.

11. Ans - 

Lasso is a modification of linear regression, where the model is penalized for the sum of absolute values of the weights. 
Lasso introduced a new hyperparameter, alpha, the coefficient to penalize weights.

Ridge takes a step further and penalizes the model for the sum of squared value of the weights. 
Thus, the weights not only tend to have smaller absolute values and more evenly distributed, but also tend to be close to zeros. 


12.
VIF (Variance Inflation Factor) - This correlation is a problem because independent variables should be independent.
Multicollinearity occurs when independent variables in a regression model are correlated. 
If the degree of correlation between variables is high enough, it can cause problems when we fit the model and interpret the results.

The Variance Inflation Factor (VIF) is 1/Tolerance, it is always greater than or equal to 1. 
There is no formal VIF value for determining presence of multicollinearity. 
Values of VIF that exceed 10 are often regarded as indicating multicollinearity, but in weaker models values above 2.5 may be a cause for concern.

13.
Feature Scaling or Standardization: It is a step of Data Pre Processing which is applied to independent variables or features of data.
It basically helps to normalise the data within a particular range. 
Sometimes, it also helps in speeding up the calculations in an algorithm
In improves the model performance.

14.
Coefficient of determination (the R-squared measure of goodness of fit); 
Lack-of-fit sum of squares; Reduced chi-squared. Regression validation.

15.
From the given confusion matrix please find below calculated sensitivity, specificity, precision, recall and accuracy
Sensitivity = TP/FN+TP = 0.45
Specificity = TN/FP+TN = 0.16
Precision = TP/TP+FP = 0.8
Recall = TP/FN+TP = 0.45
Accuracy =(TP+TN)/Total_Population = 0.42
