Q1 & Q2
1) A , D
2) A , B

Q3 to Q10
3) B
4) B
5) A
6) C
7) B
8) B
9) B
10) C

Q11 to Q15

11)What is data-warehouse?
Ans-A data warehouse is a data management system that is designed to perform support business intelligence (BI) activities, especially analytics. 
Prime Objective of data warehouses is to perform queries and analysis and often contain large amounts of historical data. 
The data within a data warehouse is derived from a wide range of sources such as application log files and transaction applications,etc.
A data warehouse centralizes and consolidates large amounts of data from multiple sources. 
Its analytical capabilities allow organizations to derive valuable business insights from their data to improve decision-making capability. 
Over time, it builds a historical record that can be invaluable to data scientists and business analysts. 
Data warehouse can be considered an organization’s “single source of truth” because of these capabilities.

A typical data warehouse often includes the following components:-
A relational database to store and manage data (RDBMS)
An extraction, loading, and transformation (ELT) solution for preparing the data for analysis
Statistical analysis, reporting, and data mining capabilities
Client analysis tools for visualizing and presenting data to business users
Analytical applications that generate actionable
Information by applying machine learning and artificial intelligence (AI) algorithms.

Functions of Data Warehouse Tools and Utilities:-
Data Extraction − Involves gathering data from multiple heterogeneous sources.
Data Cleaning − Involves finding and correcting the errors in data.
Data Transformation − Involves converting the data from legacy format to warehouse format.
Data Loading − Involves sorting, summarizing, consolidating, checking integrity, and building indices and partitions.
Refreshing − Involves updating from data sources to warehouse.

Please Note-Data cleaning and data transformation are important steps in improving the quality of data and data mining results which plays vital role in data science.

12)What is difference between OLTP Vs OLAP?

Ans- Below difference between OLTP (Online Tarnsaction Processing) & OLAP (Online Analytical processing)

OLTP-	
It extract data for Insert, Update, Delete  queries from the database.	
OLTP and its transactions are the original source of data.	
Transaction OLTP has short transactions.	
The processing time of a transaction is comparatively less in OLTP.	
Queries	Simpler queries.	
Tables in OLTP database are normalized (3NF).	
OLTP database must maintain data integrity constraint.	

OLAP-
Extract data for analyzing that helps in decision making.
Different OLTPs database becomes the source of data for OLAP. 
OLAP has long transactions.
The processing time of a transaction is comparatively more in OLAP.
Complex queries.
Tables in OLAP database are not normalized.
OLAP database does not get frequently modified. Hence, data integrity is not affected.


13)What are various characteristics of data-warehouse?
Ans-Below are data-sarehouse characteristics:

Subject-oriented –A data warehouse is always a subject oriented as it delivers information about a theme instead of organization’s current operations. 
That means the data warehousing process is proposed to handle with a specific theme which is more defined. These themes can be sales, distributions, marketing etc.
A data warehouse never put emphasis only current operations.
Instead, it focuses on demonstrating and analysis of data to make various decision. 
It also delivers an easy and precise demonstration around particular theme by eliminating data which is not required to make the decisions.

Integrated – Integration means shared entity to scale the all similar data from the different databases. 
The data also required to be resided into various data warehouse in shared and generally granted manner.
A data warehouse is built by integrating data from various sources of data such that a mainframe and a relational database. 
In addition, it must have reliable naming conventions, format and codes. Integration of data warehouse benefits in effective analysis of data. 
Reliability in naming conventions, column scaling, encoding structure etc. should be confirmed. 

Time-Variant –In this data is maintained via different intervals of time such as weekly, monthly, or annually etc. 
It founds various time limit which are structured between the large datasets and are held in online transaction process (OLTP). 
The time limits for data warehouse is wide-ranged than that of operational systems. 
The data resided in data warehouse is predictable with a specific interval of time and delivers information from the historical perspective. 
It comprises elements of time explicitly or implicitly. Another feature of time-variance is that once data is stored in the data warehouse then it cannot be modified, alter, or updated.

Non-Volatile –It also means that data is not erased or deleted when new data is inserted. 
It evaluates the analysis within the technologies of warehouse.

14)What is Star-Schema?
Ans-
Schema is a logical description of the entire database. 
Star Schema:-Schema where in each dimension is represented with only one-dimension table.
There is a fact table at the center.
This dimension table contains the set of attributes. It contains the keys to each of four dimensions, namely time, item, branch, and location.
Fact table is connected with dimention table.

15)What do you mean by SETL?
Ans-SETL is A programmable semantic extract-transform-load framework for semantic data warehouses.
Below are the characteristics of SETL-
•SETL builds on Semantic Web (SW) standards and tools.
•SETL provides a number of powerful modules, classes, and methods for (dimensional and semantic) DW constructs and tasks.
•SETL supports semantic and traditional data sources, semantic integration, and creating or publishing a (MD) semantic DW.
•Using SETL, we perform a comprehensive experimental evaluation by producing a MD semantic DW that integrates a semantic and non semantic data sources.
•SETL improves considerably over the competing solutions/tools in terms of productivity, KB quality, and performance.