1.b
2.c
3.a
4.a
5.d
6.d
7.b
8.d
9.a

Q.10and Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them in your own words briefly.

10. What Is Bayes' Theorem?
Ans-
Bayes’ Theorem
First published Sat Jun 28, 2003; substantive revision Tue Sep 30, 2003
Bayes' Theorem is a simple mathematical formula used for calculating conditional probabilities. 
It figures prominently in subjectivist or Bayesian approaches to epistemology, statistics, and inductive logic. Subjectivists, who maintain that rational belief is governed by the laws of probability, lean heavily on conditional probabilities in their theories of evidence and their models of empirical learning. Bayes' Theorem is central to these enterprises both because it simplifies the calculation of conditional probabilities and because it clarifies significant features of subjectivist position. 
Indeed, the Theorem's central insight — that a hypothesis is confirmed by any body of data that its truth renders probable — is the cornerstone of all subjectivist methodology.

Bayes' Theorem Formula-
PE(H) = [P(H)/P(E)] PH(E)
In an unfortunate, but now unavoidable, choice of terminology, statisticians refer to the inverse probability PH(E) as the "likelihood" of H on E.
It expresses the degree to which the hypothesis predicts the data given the background information codified in the probability P.
In the example discussed above, the condition that J. Doe died during 2000 is a fairly strong predictor of senior citizenship. 
Indeed, the equation PH(E) = 0.57 tells us that 57% of the total deaths occurred among seniors that year. 
Bayes' theorem lets us use this information to compute the "direct" probability of J.
Doe dying given that he or she was a senior citizen.
We do this by multiplying the "prediction term" PH(E) by the ratio of the total number of deaths in the population to the number of senior citizens in the population, P(H)/P(E) = 2.4M/16.6M = 0.144.
The result is PE(H) = 0.57 × 0.144 = 0.082, just as expected.

11. What is z-score?
Ans-
Simply put, a z-score (also called a standard score) gives you an idea of how far from the mean a data point is. 
But more technically it’s a measure of how many standard deviations below or above the population mean a raw score is.
A z-score can be placed on a normal distribution curve. Z-scores range from -3 standard deviations (which would fall to the far left of the normal distribution curve) up to +3 standard deviations (which would fall to the far right of the normal distribution curve). In order to use a z-score, you need to know the mean μ and also the population standard deviation σ.
Z-scores are a way to compare results to a “normal” population. Results from tests or surveys have thousands of possible results and units; those results can often seem meaningless.
For example, knowing that someone’s weight is 150 pounds might be good information, but if you want to compare it to the “average” person’s weight, looking at a vast table of data can be overwhelming (especially if some weights are recorded in kilograms). A z-score can tell you where that person’s weight is compared to the average population’s mean weight.

12. What is t-test? 
Ans-
A t-test is a type of inferential statistic used to determine if there is a significant difference between the means of two groups, which may be related in certain features. It is mostly used when the data sets, like the data set recorded as the outcome from flipping a coin 100 times, would follow a normal distribution and may have unknown variances. 
A t-test is used as a hypothesis testing tool, which allows testing of an assumption applicable to a population. 
A t-test looks at the t-statistic, the t-distribution values, and the degrees of freedom to determine the statistical significance. 
To conduct a test with three or more means, one must use an analysis of variance.

13. What is a percentile?
Ans-
A percentile is the value at a particular rank. For example, if your score on a test is on the 95th percentile, a common interpretation is that only 5% of the scores were higher than yours. The median is the 50th percentile; it is commonly assumed that 50% the values in a data set are above the median.

Percentiles divide ordered data into hundredths. In a sorted dataset, a given percentile is the point at which that percent of the data is less than the point we are at.
The 50th percentile is pretty much the median.
For instance, imagine the growth chart of baby girls from birth until 2 years old. By following the lines, we can see that 98% of the one year old baby girls weigh less than 11.5Kg.

14. What is ANOVA?
Ans-
An ANOVA test is a way to find out if survey or experiment results are significant. In other words, they help you to figure out if you need to reject the null hypothesis or accept the alternate hypothesis.

Basically, you’re testing groups to see if there’s a difference between them. Examples of when you might want to test different groups:

A group of psychiatric patients are trying three different therapies: counseling, medication and biofeedback. You want to see if one therapy is better than the others.
A manufacturer has two different processes to make light bulbs. They want to know if one process is better than the other.
Students from different colleges take the same exam. You want to see if one college outperforms the other.


15. How can ANOVA help?
Ans-
ANOVA test is a way to find out if survey or experiment results are significant. 
In other words, they help you to figure out if you need to reject the null hypothesis or accept the alternate hypothesis. 
Basically, you're testing groups to see if there's a difference between them.